# AJP-PRACTICAL-2024-batch

Write an inheritance hierarchy for classes Quadrilateral, Trapezoid, Rectangle and Square. Use Quadrilateral as the superclass of the hierarchy. Create and use a Point class to represent the points in each shape. Make the hierarchy as deep (i.e., as many levels) as possible. Specify the instance variables and methods for each class. The private instance variables of Quadrilateral should be the x-y coordinate pairs for the four endpoints of the Quadrilateral. Write a program that instantiates objects of your classes and outputs each object’s area (except Quadrilateral).
2. Write a program that demonstrates how various exceptions are caught with catch(Exception exception). Define classes ExceptionA (which inherits from class Exception) and ExceptionB (which inherits from class ExceptionA). Create try blocks that throw exceptions of types ExceptionA, ExceptionB, NullPointerException and IOException. All exceptions should be caught with catch blocks specifying type Exception.
3. Write an application that reads a line of text, tokenizes the line using space characters as delimiters and outputs only those words beginning with the letter "b. Also output only those words ending with the letters "ED".
4. Write a program that accepts a person’s birth date from the console and displays the person’s age in years.
5. Write the program to count the number of occurrences of each letter rather than of each word. For example, the string "HELLO THERE" contains two Hs, three Es, two Ls, one O, one T and one R. Display the results.
6. Write a program that creates a LinkedList object of 10 characters, then creates a second LinkedList object containing a copy of the first list, but in reverse order.
7. Write a program that uses a String method split to tokenize a line of text input by the user and places each token in a TreeSet. Print the elements of the TreeSet. [Note: This should cause the elements to be printed in ascending sorted order.] 
8. Write a generic method selectionSort. Write a test program that inputs, sorts and outputs an Integer array and a Float array. [Hint: Use > in the type-parameter section for method selectionSort, so that you can use method compareTo to compare the objects of the type that T represents.]
